There is one name in science that echoes through the English language  even today.  You may have heard people say ,"It doesn't take an Einstein to understand that," or "He's no Einstein".
For more than 50 years ,Albert Einstein has stood alone as the world symbol of brain power.
He discovered just bythinking about it ,what the universe is made of .The biggest scientific developments of our time -the atomic bomb,space travel,electronics-can all be linked to him .
In 1905,he was a confident 26-year-old man with wavy black hair and wide eyes who worked as a clerk in an office in Switzerland .That year ,in his spare time ,he wrote three papers for a journal about phsics,which is the science of matter,energy and what the universe is made of .
Einstein's words about what makes the universe work ,said one scientist ,gave light to huge areas that had been dark.
One of Einstein's papers won the scientist a Nobel prize.Init he describe how light could behave not only like a wave ,as most scientists of the time believed ,but also like a stream of particles.
In another paper ,as Einstein said in letter to a friend ,he explained how it "changes the theory of space and time ".Ah,yes relativity.
Einstein saw that space and time worked together.Well ,we all know that now ,"Space-time" ,We knowingly call it ,And he described the relationship with the most famous equation in all of physics:energy equals mass multiplied by the speed of light squared ,E=m*sqrt(c) .This was the theory of relativity,which was published in 1916.The public and scientists alike were shocked by it .Newspapers and popular magazines went wild .More than 100 books on relativity appeared within a year .Everywhere not only in instiutes,discussions about relativity were going on . Einstein thought he might be the only person he knew who was not trying to win a US $5000 magazine prize for the best 3000-word summary of relativity."I don't believe I could do it," he said . 
He died in  Princeton ,New  jersey, US,in 1955. The world mourned the loss of a great scientist .And after the rest of Einstein had been cremated and buried, his brain remained,sitting for years in a jar,belonging to a Princeton  scientist.In 1980s ,bits of Einstein's brain were being studied by doctors. What did they learn ? Absolutely nothing ! Einstein's brain was just a brain .

1 Why does the writer mention the saying "it doesn take an Einstein to understand that "

参考译文
即使在今天，科学界也有一个名字在英语中回响。你可能听过人们说，“不需要一个爱因斯坦就能理解”或者“他不是爱因斯坦”。

50多年来，爱因斯坦一直独立自主地成为世界脑力的象征。

他只是通过思考发现了宇宙是由什么构成的，我们这个时代最大的科学发展——原子弹、太空旅行、电子产品都可以和他联系在一起。

1905年，26岁的他自信满满，一头黑发，一双大眼睛，在瑞士的一家办公室做文员，那一年，在业余时间，他为一本关于phsics的杂志写了三篇论文，这是关于物质、能量和宇宙构成的科学。

一位科学家说，爱因斯坦关于是什么使宇宙运转的话，给了黑暗的巨大区域光明。

爱因斯坦的一篇论文为这位科学家赢得了诺贝尔奖，他从一开始就描述了光的行为不仅像当时大多数科学家所相信的波，而且像一股粒子流。

在另一篇论文中，正如爱因斯坦在给一位朋友的信中所说，他解释了它是如何“改变了时空理论”啊，是的，相对论。

爱因斯坦看到了空间和时间的共同作用，我们都知道，现在我们有意识地称之为“时空”，他描述了与物理学中最著名的方程的关系：能量等于质量乘以光速的平方，E=m*sqrt（c），这就是相对论，1916年出版。公众和科学家都对此感到震惊。报纸和通俗杂志变得疯狂起来。一年之内出现了100多本关于相对论的书。不仅在各个机构，有关相对论的讨论也在进行。爱因斯坦认为他可能是他所认识的唯一一个不想赢得5000美元的相对论最佳3000字摘要杂志奖的人。

1955年，他在美国新泽西州普林斯顿去世。全世界哀悼一位伟大科学家的逝世。在爱因斯坦的其他部分被火化和埋葬之后，他的大脑仍然保存在一个罐子里，放了好几年，属于普林斯顿的一位科学家。20世纪80年代，医生们正在研究爱因斯坦的部分大脑。他们学到了什么？完全没有！爱因斯坦的大脑只是一个大脑。